[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Now in the
course of the years,
I've developed a lot of
very strange friends,
and one of them is a
being named Emmanuel.
And Emmanuel is interesting,
because Emmanuel
doesn't have a body.
He's a being on another plane.
And Emmanuel had
a good teaching.
Let me read you one of
the things he said to me.
He said, "You are here
because you chose to be here,
because this is
a learning place.
Each lifetime is a
wonderful opportunity
to expand your consciousness
and to move closer, ever closer
to your oneness with God.
This happens in
very small stages.
First, oneness
with self, oneness
with your human community,
then oneness with God.
It cannot be done in
one blinding flash.
It would be too
incomprehensible,
too confusing.
So be patient.
When we choose to come
back, we construct an embryo
to hold within us the
areas of distortion
that we need to work on.
Then we choose our
infinite environment
to act as a catalyst to
bring out these areas.
So you were where you
needed to be as a child.
So accept the
distortions in you,
because when you accept
them, you can transform them.
That's what life is about.
You are here to find these
areas of imperfection,
to understand
them, to love them,
and to educate them
into a reality, which
is truth, light, love.
If in the transitional
period you
find things in yourself
that are not perfect,
don't blame yourself.
Celebrate."
So in effect, what Emmanuel
said to me when I said to him,
"Emmanuel, what work
do I have to do now?
He said, Ram Dass,
you're in a school.
Why don't you try
taking the curriculum?
He said, you took a human birth.
You're so busy being holy,
why don't you try being human?
Because somehow, being
human was less than perfect.
Even though I
intellectually knew
that form is no other than
formless and formless is
no other than form and I knew
that the manifestation was
God made manifest, everything
was perfect out there
except me.
So I said, "OK,
Emmanuel, here I go."
I decided I'd just
to go and be human.
Now I'd already figured
this out, really.
I had already figured
out that as long
as I pushed anything
in the universe away,
I wasn't going to be free.
And I saw that the game
wasn't getting high.
The game was being
free and that free
included the highs and the lows.
Free included it all.
All and everything,
as Gurdjieff said.
Not, this is all
god except that.
You just can't get
stuck in those places.
It's not good enough.
You can do that up
to a certain point,
but then the witness is just
another part of your ego,
really.
It's just a part looking
at the other part.
And finally, you
witness the witness,
and that's the kind of
meditative technique
you turn in on yourself.
And you-- but behind
all that, there's
just a context of frame
of reference of is-ness.
It doesn't have
any quality to it.
You can't say it's happy,
or sad, or watchful,
or it's not looking,
but it's seeing.
It just is.
It's the Dao.
It's the way.
And what happened now, when
I was open to my personality
stuff, was that the
movement from knowing
the world through
conceptual structures
and knowing it another
way, which we could use--
the Western word we
often use is intuitively,
I have felt that
the problems that we
kept creating with
our rational minds
were only going to be solved
by our intuitive connection
to the universe.
And I kept looking
for intuitive training
to connect with that deeper and
deeper part of my being that
just knows.
But the problem that I
ran into for some years
was that the doorway
to the intuition
is through the human heart.
And I was trying to
leap into cosmic love
without dealing
with emotionality,
because emotionality was
a little too human for me.
And what I
experienced was that I
had used pushing
away my humanity
to embrace my divinity.
And then I wanted
to be intuitive,
but the intuition, the
impeccable warrior intuitive
action has to come from
a blending of humanity
and divinity.
And until I could accept
my humanity fully,
my intuitions weren't going
to be fully in harmony
with the way of things.
And I began to feel that what
my freedom was going to lie in
was the creative
tension of being
able to see simultaneously
the perfection
and also to experience
the pain, to see
that there was nothing
to do and to work as hard
as I could to relieve suffering,
to see it was all a dream
and still live within
the reality of it.
That creative tension.
And what I'm experiencing is
that as the faith, the faith--
the connection to that which
you are at the deepest level
to the universe, to the
oneness of all things,
as that faith gets
deeper and deeper--
so you can dramatically,
much more freely
throw yourself into life.
As long as the faith
flickers, you've
got to be very
tentative about the way
you go into life,
because you're always
afraid you're going to lose
your connection to the spirit.
But when that faith is
really strong, you can say,
here I come.
Wow.
It's a big one.
It's a big one,
embracing humanity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]